[boy narrating]:
In the year of our Lord 1442,
the Turkish sultan enslaved
1,000 Transylvanian boys
to fill the ranks of his army.
[man shouting]
[boy shrieks]
These child slaves
were beaten without mercy–
[whip cracks]
trained to kill
without conscience,
to crave the blood
of all who defied the Turks.
From among these boys,
one grew into a warrior
so fierce
that entire armies
would retreat in terror
at the mention of his name–
Vlad the Impaler.
Son of the dragon.
[growling]
Sickened by his monstrous acts,
Vlad came to bury his past
with the dead
and returned to Transylvania
to rule in peace.
His subjects called him prince.
I called him Father.
But the world would come
to know him as
Dracula.
I left it
where I found it.
What do you think, Vlad?
Bring it to me.
This belongs to a scout.
One of Hamza Bey’s men.
What the hell’s
a lone Turk doing out here?
Turkish scouts
never travel alone.
If there’s one, there’s more.
And whatever they scout,
they conquer.
This was washed downstream.
Came from up there.
Broken Tooth Mountain.
Soon it will be night.
They’ll seek refuge.
Dumitru, I need you
to return to the castle.
Alert the guards
and double the sentry.
What?
I’m not leaving you here.
For the Turks
to cross into my land
is a sign of war.
What are you going to do?
I’ll do what princes do best–
negotiate.
Nicolae, Andrei,
with me.
[whistles]
Fall in!
Anything?
[wind howling]
[groans]
Smells like your feet.
[both chuckle]
They’re inside.
How do you know?
Bats don’t come out
during the day.
Something’s
disturbed them.
Come on.
What is it,
my lord?
The floor.
It’s crushed bone.
The Turks didn’t do this.
[growling]
What’s that?
[screams]
We leave. Now.
[growling]
[growling continues]
[panting]
[horse whinnies]
Hyah!
The creature you encountered
was no accident, my prince.
Four nights ago,
every brother in our order
awoke from an identical dream.
I would not have
thought it possible
had I not suffered
the same vision myself
that night–
of a creature laying siege
to this holy place.
The Roman mystics
prophesized the coming
of a great evil–
a vampire.
From the Greek word pi–
"to drink."
The beast was once
a mortal man
who summoned a demon
from the depths of hell
to trade for his dark power.
The demon tricked the man,
granting his wish,
but his price was an eternity
condemned to the darkness
of that cave
where he remains
until he finds another
to set him free.
Now you know its true face.
The people of Transylvania
live in enough fear
of the Turks’ return.
Promise me you’ll guard
this secret, brother.
[grunting]
[laughing]
[laughing continues]
Papa!
[laughing]
I missed you.
VLAD:
And I you.
My big soldier.
What, an embrace
but no kiss?
Are we going to argue?
With you always leaving,
I need my fill.
Oh, I’ve missed you.
Something troubles you.
What is it?
Only the impossible depth
of your beauty.
Puts the rest
of the world to shame.
Pay no attention
to your father, Ingeras.
Flattery is
a cheap distraction
from truth.
She knows
all my tricks.
You’re a terrible liar.
It’s one of your most
endearing qualities.
You’re just in time
for bed.
[grunts, laughs]
[laughs]
-Can we go riding
tomorrow, Papa?
-Of course we can.
-You most certainly cannot.
-Why not?
Because tomorrow is
the day of our risen Lord.
-Of course.
-That’s Easter.
What was I thinking?
So what attacked you?
Wolves?
I suppose.
All I know
is that I’ve lost
two good men today.
There’s something more.
I was the same age as Ingeras
when I was sent to live
with the Turks.
To fight for them.
If I never saw another,
it would be too soon.
You’re home now.
For almost as many years
as you were gone.
I just want peace.
That’s all.
[squeals, laughs]
[chattering]
-[glass clinking]
-My fellow Transylvanians,
an Easter toast.
Ten years
of peace and prosperity
ever since our prince
came back to us.
My old friend,
here’s to 20 more.
-MAN:
To 20 more!
-[cheering]
Hamza Bey.
Welcome.
We were not
expecting you so soon.
Sultan Mehmed II
offers his salutations
to you and your son.
Thank him.
I have his tribute ready.
Mmm.
I’m afraid there’s
something more than
a tribute to discuss.
The Turks have
no enemies here.
Did you think we would
not notice a battalion
of our scouts missing?
I did not kill them.
[foreign language]
It still lives inside you,
Lord Impaler.
Locked in a dark cage,
hidden away.
But you and I...
we both know it’s there.
The sultan’s tribute.
Take it and leave.
Ah.
There is one last thing.
The sultan
requires 1,000 boys
to join his Janissary Corps.
-MEN:
No!
-[gasps]
Never!
VLAD:
Janissaries?
He ended that practice
years ago.
When a soldier
is plucked as a child
and raised to know
no other life,
they will kill
without question
and die without complaint.
MAN:
Never!
Any who are 15 years
of age or older
will fight in Hungary.
Those 10 to 14
will be made ready
for the siege on Vienna.
The sultan expects
your obedience.
After all,
did not your own father
give you up without a fight?
[grunting]
[foreign language]
Soft, but they’ll do.
Don’t. Please.
[foreign language]
Do you know who I am?
You mean, who you were.
You have no army
and no choice, Prince.
Follow our command,
or suffer the consequences.
[man shouts]
It must be done.
Courage, anger,
even love–
none of these
can matter to a prince.
All that matters
is his duty to his people.
INGERAS:
What does it mean
to be a royal hostage?
My father gave me to the sultan
to prove his loyalty.
Were you scared there?
With them.
I wanted to make
my father proud.
Would you ever give me
to the sultan?
That was a long time ago.
You have nothing
to worry about.
Do you understand?
Good.
[Vlad]
If I defy the order,
they’ll kill a hundred
for every one I save.
You told me
you and Mehmed
were once like brothers.
Were you to ask,
isn’t it possible
he might show you
some mercy?
[men shouting]
You ever see
the like of it?
Soon the entire world
will be Turk.
Lord Impaler.
My oldest of friends.
I miss
our days together.
All I miss
from my time with you
is the coffee.
It’s true.
My father’s palace
was a cruel place
for a young boy
far from home.
But soon
you talked like us,
prayed like us,
fought like us.
Speaking of which,
I am owed 1,000 boys.
Why have
I not seen them?
Mehmed, my brother,
I will grant you anything else.
I need soldiers,
brother.
Then take me.
[chuckles]
I’m worth a thousand boys,
and you know it.
Those kings
would tremble
if they knew.
Then accept my offer.
When we were boys,
how I longed to fight
side by side.
But now I am sultan,
what need have I
for one more soldier?
I will have
my thousand boys.
And one more.
Your son will be raised
under my roof
just as you were raised
under the roof of my father.
You may retain your throne.
But General Ismail
will remain to see
that my orders are fulfilled.
[foreign language]
Please. Do not do this.
[Mehmed]
What is one son?
If you are virile,
you will make plenty more.
Whoa there.
Whoa.
You promised me
this would never happen.
Mirena, listen.
The day
you asked for my hand,
remember what I said?
You said no.
[Dumitru]
Stay, my young friend.
[Mirena]
I knew what happens
to sons of the queen.
You said things
would be different.
You said if I loved you,
I should trust you.
I love you.
Then trust me.
It’s this
or war.
[foreign language]
The Great Impaler
can’t please his woman.
Everything’s fine, boys.
They’re just saying
their good-byes.
Come, Mirena.
I won’t let you–
You promised me and my family!
Stop it!
Don’t touch me!
I won’t.
I won’t let them
do this.
Vlad, don’t.
Don’t do this.
The prince is doing–
No, I won’t let you
do this!
I’ll go. I’ll go!
I can do it.
You’re proud of me,
aren’t you?
Of course I am.
You have chosen wisely.
Yeah, I have to say
we are a little
disappointed.
Frankly, I expected more
resistance from you.
Run to your mother.
What?
Now.
Come here.
Don’t look.
Mehmed will punish
all of Transylvania
for what you have done.
It’s not a child’s place
to save his country.
Get my family
to the castle.
[Man]
Mehmed will be
sending others soon enough.
More will come.
You can’t
protect us.
I’ll find a way.
Vlad, where are you going?
Whatever haunts Broken Tooth,
I know it kills Turks. Hyah!
[thunderclap]
[wind howling]
[growls]
You returned.
No one has
ever returned.
It seems no one has
ever had the privilege
of leaving either.
[growls]
Neither will you.
[sniffs]
Those who enter reek of fear.
In you I sense hope.
Your silver
offends me.
Cloak it from my sight.
What kind of man
crawls into his own grave
in search of hope? Hmm?
A desperate one.
The Turks threaten
to destroy my kingdom.
With power like yours,
I could stop them.
Save my people.
Save my family.
How supremely noble,
Lord Impaler.
House Dracul.
Son of the devil.
You’re mistaken.
It means
"son of the dragon."
"Protector
of the innocent."
Do your people know
how many innocents
you have killed?
Was it hundreds?
[growls]
Yes.
Lie to me again,
and I’ll open you
from your belly to your brain
and feed you
your intestines.
Thousands.
And when you put them
to the stake,
what did you feel?
Shame? Horror?
Power?
Answer me!
Nothing.
I felt nothing.
A greater crime
than the act itself.
Then why spill blood
if not for the pleasure of it?
Because men
do not fear swords.
They fear monsters.
They run from them.
By putting one village
to the stake,
I spared 10 more.
Sometimes the world
no longer needs a hero.
Sometimes what it needs
is a monster.
And you believe you know
what it is to be a monster?
Hmm?
[grunts]
[growling]
You have no idea.
But I’m going
to show you.
For centuries,
these moldering walls
have been my gallows.
For I’m bound to this cave,
condemned by one
who turned me.
Oh, and I have
waited an eternity
for a man of your strength,
your gifts,
your will–
a man worthy of the dark
and all its powers.
For if I am
your salvation,
you are mine.
Drink.
You will have
a taste of my power.
The strength
of a hundred men.
The speed
of a falling star.
Dominion over the night
and all its creatures.
To see and hear
through their senses.
Even heal
grievous wounds.
At what price?
Once you drink,
your thirst for human blood
will be insatiable.
But if you can resist
for three days,
you will return
to your mortal state,
having sampled my power
and perhaps saved
your people.
And if I feed?
The price would be worse
than if you’d never
stepped in here.
For I will be set free,
having granted the darkness
a worthy offering.
You will become
its vessel, as I am,
a scourge on this earth
destined to destroy
everything you hold dear–
your land, your people,
even your precious wife and son.
I would die
before I’d harm them.
Indeed you will,
I’m afraid.
I, however,
will at last be free
to unleash my wrath
against the one
who betrayed me.
And one day
I will call on you
to serve me, my pawn,
in an immortal game
of revenge.
-This is not a game!
-Ah, what better way
to endure eternity.
For this, little prince,
is the ultimate game.
Light versus dark.
Hope versus despair.
And all the world’s fate
hangs in the balance.
Then it will be
my great pleasure
to disappoint you.
Drink.
Let the games begin.
[moans]
[groans]
[moaning]
What now?
Now...
you die.
-[growling]
-Papa!
[gasping]
That’s useful.
[loud squishing]
[loud trilling]
[loud barking]
[flapping]
[panting]
[rumbling in distance]
Prepare to fire!
Fire!
Light!
[man]
Look out!
You came back.
I always will.
Where were you?
Searching
for the strength I needed.
You’re back.
[rumbling]
[man]
Get down!
-[Vlad]
They wanted our sons.
-We’re ready to fight.
A good prince
would have given them up.
A good prince would
have paid that price
for peace.
-[rumbling]
-But I give you my word.
We will not be defeated!
They’ve brought war
to our land!
And they will
pay dearly for it.
Fire!
Charge!
[soldiers yelling]
[yelling continues]
[growling]
[sword clinks]
What? Wait.
Negotiations failed.
Do not ask me
what happened
on this field tonight.
Trust only that I will use
all I have to keep us safe.
But we will not be safe
if we stay here.
We must leave directly
for Cozia monastery.
It’s high in the mountains,
too remote for cannon fire.
It’s our best chance
of survival.
We’ll take enough of our people
so that our absence is noticed.
That way, when Mehmed learns
what has happened here,
he’ll come hunting for us.
[man]
Word from Castle Dracula.
Vlad has defeated
a thousand of our men.
[Mehmed]
Then send a hundred thousand.
I will lead them.
When I march into Europe,
I will have
his head upon my spear
and his child at my side.
[Dumitru]
We can fight the way
our great-grandfathers fought.
Use the forests,
the mountains
around the Borgó Pass.
Four or five months
of that.
Not months.
I’m going
to win this war
in three days.
Why not two–
and really impress us?
[chattering]
[loud chomping]
[master vampire’s voice]
Feed.
What is it?
I need some air.
I’m sorry.
Don’t think I haven’t
noticed you following me.
You’re mistaken.
I follow them.
They recognize
one of their own.
The night is
their kingdom,
blood
their sustenance.
And some, they say,
have lived for as long
as there have been prey
to devour.
Spare me your ravings.
They say the one
who escaped the mountain
hides behind the face
of a man.
Well, if that man is me,
you’ll know a knife
will not do you any good.
Of course not.
Why do you think
I stayed?
I know there is only
so far on this earth
we can run,
and it is not
far enough.
Let me serve you.
[voice whispering,
indistinct]
[laughing]
[birds shrieking]
Stay away from me.
Yes, master.
[voice whispering,
indistinct]
[master vampire’s voice]
Fulfill your destiny.
Set me free.
[moans]
[laughing]
[laughing continues]
[grunts]
We found him
in the field.
He asked for you.
[gasping]
A message from Prince Vlad.
He hopes you
enjoy the view.
[breathing raggedly]
Mirena.
Your scars are gone.
What’s happening
to you?
I’m the thing men fear
on Broken Tooth.
Not a ghost.
Something else.
[sizzling]
[grunting]
No! Stop it!
May God strike down
whoever did this to you.
I chose this.
This is the strength
you sought?
But why?
Because I sent corpses
back to Mehmed
instead of our son.
You did this for us?
In two days,
I’ll be restored.
I just have to resist.
Resist what?
Resist what, Vlad?
Tell me.
A thirst...
for blood.
And if you were
to give in?
Then I become this
for eternity.
You will undo this, won’t you?
Yes.
I swear it.
I will not give in.
Then God will forgive you.
[Dumitru]
Vlad.
Mehmed is getting closer.
We might want to move out soon.
I need you to get
to the monastery
as quickly as you can.
Mehmed’s men
will be close by.
No.
Listen to me.
I will reach you
after sundown.
I promise you.
[whispering]
I love you.
[hissing]
[man shouts, faint]
My husband agrees
with your counsel.
We will depart now under
your temporary command.
What?
And where’s Vlad
going to be?
Spying on the Turks.
He insists on doing
his own reconnaissance.
No. I won’t have it.
It’s too late.
He’s already gone.
All right, everyone.
Prepare to move out.
[man]
Prepare the horses!
Tell the sultan
where his enemies
will be buried.
[cooing]
[chattering, faint]
Listen.
We’re nearly there.
[shouting]
[woman screams]
[grunting, groaning]
Cover the rear!
Mirena! Ingeras!
[Vlad growling]
Couldn’t these monks
build their gates
a little bit closer?
[shouting continues, faint]
Stay behind me.
-[snarls]
-[man screams]
Don’t the Turks
teach you anything new?
I saw your blade coming from–
[whimpers]
Ingeras, run.
Where is your prince now,
my lady?
[chuckles]
[gasps]
-[growling]
-[screams]
[growling]
[breathing raggedly]
Dumitru.
It’s okay.
Vlad.
Dumitru, listen.
Listen.
No.
[men shouting, faint]
Come here. Come here.
Never leave us again,
Papa.
Never.
I will always
watch over you.
[bell chiming]
[man]
Through the gates!
Keep moving along.
This way.
[grunting]
You should never
have strayed from us.
-Whatever your reasons
for leaving were–
-Quiet.
[man, faint]
in the name of the Father,
the Son–
Get these men off their knees.
Stand up, do you hear me?
Stand up!
The Turks are coming.
Prayers will not
defend these walls.
[man]
Do you believe
we can do this?
[Vlad]
Mehmed’s men will be coming
from the north.
Double our sentries
on the perimeter walls.
Go. Do it now.
What’s in there?
Something I hope
to never use again.
Come now.
[groans echoing]
[swords clashing]
[man]
The men say that Vlad
has become a monster.
I fear this will
only inflame the rumors
of the prince’s dark magic.
Only if we allow it.
Men cannot fear
what they cannot see.
[Mehmed]
Remember when
you first joined my army?
You wanted to
pick up your sword and fight.
When my generals
blindfolded you,
you did not believe
that you could march
without seeing,
but you could.
Now march with me.
Your sultan will guide you.
[dog barking, faint]
[chattering, faint]
Prince Vlad.
[gasps]
The vampire
is vulnerable
to daylight
and to pure silver.
Yet the holy cross
exerts no power over you.
That can only mean
you have yet to seal your fate
with human blood.
Let me kill you now,
my prince–
please–
before your people do.
Rumor has spread
of what you have become.
You can still repent.
You’d do well to run, Lucian.
[groaning]
[women scream]
[man]
It’s true!
He’s a monster!
[clamoring]
No.
Please. Listen!
He is your prince.
He has earned the chance
to explain.
[Mirena]
Stop!
He–He’s your prince!
[man]
Kill the monster!
Satan lives in his heart.
Vlad!
-[Vlad yelling]
-[wailing]
[yelling continues]
[shouting]
Mirena!
He was trying
to save us all.
[growling]
[growling stops]
Take him to my room
and shut the door.
Do not let him look outside.
Okay.
Mama.
[growling]
[panting]
This is your loyalty?
Your gratitude?
Fools.
Do you think you are alive
because you can fight?
Come on.
[sobbing]
You are alive because of me!
Because of what I did
to save you!
This is not who you are.
Return to your stations.
Believe me,
there is still more to fear.
Lord, if you’ve
not yet forsaken me,
grant me your strength
that I may resist the darkness.
Allow me to endure this test
one more day.
I beg you.
[footsteps]
Please.
Are you sick?
If you’re sick,
I thought it might
make you feel better.
Thank you.
Come.
[pats pew]
You’ll make
a great leader someday.
You think of others
before yourself.
When the Turks
came to take me,
you stopped them.
[sighs]
It’s why you got sick,
isn’t it?
To save me?
Yes.
And I would
do it all again.
[Vlad]
They’re almost here.
Dawn will be breaking soon,
and with it,
the loss of my powers.
If we’ve not
won this war by then–
I will fight beside you
until death.
Your death
would end my fight.
We have done the duty
of any good parent–
protected our child,
protected all the children
in the kingdom.
Perhaps our destiny
was not to rule
in this life.
[whispering]
Do you remember
our wedding vow?
"Why think separately
of this life
and the next"–
"When one is born
from the last?"
Time is always too short
for those who need it,
but for those who love,
it lasts forever.
[soldiers murmuring]
[screeching]
[wings flapping]
[flapping continues]
[shouts]
[men shouting,
screaming]
[yells]
[Mehmed]
Hold your ground!
Stand your ground!
Hold fast!
Hold your ground!
Fire!
[shouting, screaming
continues]
[horses whinnying]
[breathing raggedly]
Mehmed!
-Oh.
-[breathing raggedly]
Where is he?
[shouting]
Fire!
Draw!
[gasps]
[shouting, grunting]
Find your father! Go!
Where is he?
You can keep running
if you like.
[men shouting]
-[grunts]
-[groans]
Oh, no!
[Ingeras]
Let me go!
No!
Mirena.
No! Please!
Ingeras!
[grunts]
[whimpers]
[screaming]
Vlad!
[echoing]
No!
[woman singing ballad]
[no audible dialogue]
[ballad continues]
No, Mirena.
Please, stay with me.
I cannot do this
without you.
[gasps]
Mirena.
There’s still time
for you to stop them.
Drink my blood.
No. I cannot take
your life.
My life is lost already.
But our son’s is not.
No.
I love you.
Do it now.
Please.
[breathing raggedly]
Do it now.
[Vlad snarls]
[groans]
Vlad!
[snarls]
[grunting]
[Vlad shouts]
[sobbing]
[yells]
Do you want vengeance?
Drink.
[moaning]
[grunts]
[Vlad’s voice]
I now know hell is real,
so I know there’s a heaven.
[chattering]
Neither this world or the next
shall keep us apart.
I will honor your sacrifice,
and I vow that our son
shall be safe.
Of all of my lands,
this is the one
I love the least.
Look to the east.
The sun should be risen by now,
should it not?
[thunder rumbling]
What is that?
It is the prince.
He is coming.
[men shouting]
[screeching]
[grunting, groaning]
-[shouting]
-[woman screeches]
I used to think
there were too many of you.
Now there’s not enough.
[snarls]
[men shouting, screaming]
[growling]
[screams]
[thunderclap]
[panting]
[sword unsheathes]
I understand
you have a weakness
for silver.
[clangs]
[sizzling]
[groaning]
[Ingeras]
Papa!
He is waiting for you.
[Mehmed]
You are slower, brother,
and weaker.
[groans]
[Vlad groaning]
Oh.
Go on. Take it.
Is this the monster
that terrified my men?
Hmm?
[breathing raggedly]
You grow more weary
by the moment.
Tell me–
how long can you bear it
in here, huh?
Long enough
to strike your name
from the history books.
[grunting]
[yells]
-[groaning]
-[Ingeras]
Papa!
[panting]
[chuckles]
[whimpering]
Take a last look
at your father, Ingeras.
-No!
-Look how pathetic he is.
No, stop! Please!
[groaning]
[whimpering]
[loud snap]
If I put a stake
through your heart–
[grunting]
it will kill you–
like any other man.
A fitting death
for Lord–
[Ingeras]
No!
Impaler.
[both grunting]
Papa!
That is no longer my name.
My name is Dracula–
son of the devil.
[snarls]
[Mehmed groaning]
[roaring]
[Vlad roaring]
[Ingeras whimpers]
[Vlad]
It’s all right.
I’m here.
[growls]
[creatures screeching,
snarling]
You old goat.
I don’t feel old.
How many are left?
None. Except for your son,
of course.
A distraction we can now
dispense with.
[grunting]
What have I taught you?
Repeated over and over
since you were a boy?
All that matters
is a prince’s duty
to his people.
Don’t you realize?
They’re all our enemies now.
When he’s gone,
you’ll be free.
-[snarling]
-[grunts]
[groans]
[grunts]
You forget who I am.
[snarling]
[yelling]
[gasping]
[growling, snarling]
Leave him.
[growling, snarling
continues]
Come with me, child.
[whimpers]
Come.
Please.
Be gone!
The time has come.
Please.
Please, you must come.
I don’t want
to leave you.
You have to go with him.
[sobbing]
No!
Do not leave his side.
Please. Please.
Know I will always love you.
Always.
Please!
Go!
No!
You take care of him.
Papa!
No!
[growling, snarling
continues]
He’s safe now, Mirena.
[all groaning]
[screaming]
[no audible dialogue]
[yelling]
[Ingeras narrating]
The Turks never conquered
the capitals of Europe.
Prince Vlad Dracula
was a hero,
but there are no pictures
or statues of him.
I am his legacy.
His sacrifice taught me that
even after the darkest night
the sun will rise again.
Drink, master.
For if the heart
is strong enough,
the soul is reborn–
[gasping]
with each new day,
in life after life,
age after age,
forever.
Beautiful.
The flowers, my lady.
"My lady"?
Where are you from?
A long way from here.
Well, good night.
"Why think separately
of this life and the next
when one is born
from the last?"
That’s my favorite poem.
It speaks to you of yearning,
of one soul pleading
for another.
I’m Mina.
Vlad.
[no audible dialogue]
[laughs]
Let the games begin.